the site has been mostly designed in photoshop. i will start coding now. 

ive created a simple way to allow users to upload their own grammar files to the site. instead of having html buttons, a text link can be clicked,
which triggers a javascript function which silently presses the 'select a file' button. when the file is selected, that value in the form is
changed, which is noticed by another javascript function, which then silently presses the 'upload' button. this method gives the user a much
more seamless experience. code based on this example: http://www.w3schools.com/php/php_file_upload.asp

i am using radio buttons to create a grid of selectable tiles, however the code i found at this site: http://jsfiddle.net/davidelrizzo/DYJkG/
has a bit of a formatting issue. the hack used to make the radio buttons look more like tiles leaves their anchor point far to the top right.
i expect i can correct this by using margin and padding in css.

i have placed the radio button into a table, which aids in the formatting, however i still cannot center the table at all browser sizes.
im going to work on the backend of the site for now.

i now have a mysql server running to keep track of the grammar files on the server. i am storing the file name, name (which might be able
to be changed by the user at some point) and the number of times that grammar has been used (to track popularity).

ive just set up the ajax request for the server to respond with the generated text. generate.php currently just returns the name of the
file that was loaded. however, it seems that php is messing up the file by removing all the < and >. so i have to figure out what is 
going on there before i can parse the grammar.

turns out it's just an html issue. printing the file through the htmlspecialchars function correctly displays the < > on the web page,
although this is not needed since the grammar file never needs to be printed on the page.

i have magically fixed the css to keep the templates centered in the page with the code: margin-left: calc(50% - 41vw - 8px);
50% seems to put it in the center (left justified), then the 41vw is about 2x the width of each box (not sure why this works)
and the - 8px is twice the width between the blocks. magic css y u do?

the templates are now generated with php code that reads the available templates from the database and outputs the correct html code
to generate a table.

the grammar now loads into an associative array in php. i have to 'unset()' the array of productions each time since php has mega global scope.

most of the c++ code has been translated over to php. now i need to address the issue of using the goto statement in c++. i need to factor out 
the code in the while loop 'while (strlen($def) > 0)' into a funtion and use a return statement in place of the goto. =

ok the generate function works now. theres absolutely no error checking, so if the grammar isnt perfect the output will be broken. it still 
cant deal with empty strings i think. next up is to make the generate more robust and then expand more features of the site. maybe have a page
on how to make a grammar, or just create a grammar creation tool or something. real time generation would be cool to have on the creator page.
also, adding user asccount might make sense it users want to make and keep track of their grammars. also, i need to upadte the database every time
someone uses a grammar. 

views are now tracked in the sql database.